# Getting Started with fabric_devops

This guide walks you through the basic stapes of getting up and running
with **fabric_devops** project. This will allow you to write, test and
debug Python code which automates CI/CD tasks in Fabric-based solutions
using the Fabric REST APIs. You will begin by configuring your developer
environment so you run Python code locally on your computer in the
Visual Studio Code debugger. After that, you will move through the
configuration steps to enable the same Python code to run in the cloud
within the context of a GitHub workflow.

>This guide will lead you through the following steps to get you
started with local development on your developer workstation.

1.    Fork the **fabric_devops** repository into your own repository

2.    Clone the forked repository to a local **fabric_devops** folder on
        your developer workstation

3.    Open the local copy of the **fabric_devops** folder in Visual Studio
        Code

4.    Update configuration data in the **.env** file for local development
        and debugging

5.    Run a set of demo Python scripts to experiment with sample Python
        code in the **fabric_devops** project

>After you move through the steps which enable you to run and
test the sample code locally, this guide will then lead you through the
following steps to enable running and testing the same code within the
context of GitHub workflow actions.

1.    Enable workflows in your forked copy of the **fabric_devops**
        repository

2.    Update configuration data by adding GitHub action secrets

3.    Experiment by running the sample GitHub actions that are part of the
        **fabric_devops** project

## Fork the fabric_devops repository

Begin by forking the **fabric_devops** repository.

1.    Navigate to the repository in the browser at
        <https://github.com/FabricDevCamp/fabric-devops>.

2.    Drop down the **Fork** menu in the upper right of the page.

3.    Select the **Create a new fork** command.

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image1.png"
style="width:7.94in;height:3.13in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

4.    Next, select the **Create fork** command.

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image2.png"
style="width:5.28659in;height:3.83505in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

This forked repository is your starting point. This is the repository in
which you will test and experiment with Python code

The next step is to clone this repository to a local folder for testing
in Visual Studio Code

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image3.png"
style="width:4.87464in;height:3.44574in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Use git clone command or equivalent to copy files from repo to local
project folder.

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image4.png"
style="width:6.47234in;height:1.72555in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Open the project in Visual Studio Code.

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image5.png"
style="width:4.45139in;height:3.5in" />

## Updating Configuration in the Local .env File

Steps to add configuration for local debugging

Rename the sample.env file to .env

Update environmental variables in the .env file

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image6.png"
style="width:9.11806in;height:3.0261in" />

Here is what you need to edit.

- Configuration for Entra Id application used to authenticate as service
    principal

    - **FABRIC_CLIENT_ID**

    - **FABRIC_CLIENT_SECRET**

    - **FABRIC_TENANT_ID**

    - **SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_OBJECT_ID**

- The Azure object Id for your Entra Id user account

    - **ADMIN_USER_ID**

- Capacity Id

    - **FABRIC_CAPACITY_ID**

- Personal access token used to create connections between Fabric
    workspace and GitHub

    - **PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN_GITHUB**

Sss

**fabric_devops** Library exposes set of classes

- **EnvironmentSettings**

- **AppLogger**

- **EntraIdTokenManager**

- **FabricRestApi**

- **ItemDefinitionFactory**

- **VariableLibrary**

- **DeploymentManager**

- **StagingEnvironments**

- **SampleCustomerData**

- **AdoProjectManager**

- **GitHubRestApi**

## EnvironmentSettings Class

EnvironmentSettings class provides access to environmental variables

Environmental variables loaded using os.getenv function

When running locally in Visual Studio Code, environmental variables
loaded from .env file

When running locally in GitHub workflows, environmental variables loaded
action secrets

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image11.png"
style="width:6.92361in;height:4.71528in" />

## Authenticating with MSAL

Authentication and token acquisition in the fabric_devops project is
implemented using Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Python

- MSAL used to authenticate with Entra Id and acquire access tokens

    - MSAL provides **ConfidentialClientApplication** used acquire access
        tokens for service principals

    - MSAL provides **PublicClientApplication** used acquire access tokens
        for service principals

- Installing MSAL

    - Library installed from Python Package Index (PyPI) at
        **https://pypi.org/project/msal/**

    - Install command from terminal in Visual Studio Code: **pip install
        msal**

- Permission scopes for requesting access tokens for Fabric REST APIs

    - For service principal tokens:
        **https://api.fabric.microsoft.com/.default**

    - For user tokens:
        **https://api.fabric.microsoft.com/user_impersonation**

## Running Demo Scripts

Once configuration Is set, you can run demo scripts

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image12.png"
style="width:11.08956in;height:4.96785in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 01 - Acquire Access Token for Service Principal

Sssss

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image13.png"
style="width:5.1625in;height:3.57276in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 02 - Acquire Access Token for Interactive User

Xxxxx

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image14.png"
style="width:6.1375in;height:3.61321in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 03 - Acquire Access Token for User with Device Code

Xxxxxx

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image15.png"
style="width:6.05164in;height:4.56412in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 04 - Execute Fabric REST API Call to List Workspaces

Xxxx

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image16.png"
style="width:10.41667in;height:3.825in" />

Ssss

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image17.png"
style="width:4.47841in;height:2.03837in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 05 - Execute Fabric REST API Call to List Capacities You Need a Fabric Capacity Id for Testing. 

### <img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image18.png"
style="width:5.90861in;height:3.24184in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Copy the capacity ID of a capacity based on F SKU, FT SKU or P SKU

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image19.png"
style="width:6.23004in;height:1.72941in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 06 - Execute Fabric REST API to Create Workspace

Xxxxx

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image20.png"
style="width:5.58206in;height:5.66154in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Handling Longing Running Operations in POST Requests

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image21.png"
style="width:4.8567in;height:4.7625in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### FabricRestApi class

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image22.png"
style="width:5.16165in;height:2.92195in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Xxx

### Demo 07 - Create Workspace using FabricRestApi Class xxx

<img src="./images/GettingStarted/media/image23.png"
style="width:4.72917in;height:3.20305in"
alt="A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

### Demo 08 - Deploy Complete Fabric Solution

ssss

### Coming Soon: The Fabric REST API Python SDK

Python SDK for Fabric REST API adds valuable productivity boost

- Abstracts away executing HTTP requests, adding **Authorization**
    header and handling responses

- Parses together target REST URLs containing workspace Id, item Ids and
    specific endpoints

- Handles serializing/deserializing JSON payloads sent back and forth
    over the wire

- Provides automatic support for API calls which implement
    **long-running operations (LRO)** pattern

- Provides automatic support for dealing with **continuation tokens**
    and merging **paginated results**

``` python

def deploy_fabcon_solution(

        target_workspace,

        deploy_job = StagingEnvironments.get_dev_environment()):

    """Deploy FabCon Solution"""

    bronze_lakehouse_name = "sales_bronze"

    silver_lakehouse_name = "sales_silver"

    gold_warehouse_name = "sales"

```

